Resume
******

People
******

David M. Syzdek
===============

Post Office Box 110673                      907-550-8389 (day)
Anchorage, Alaska  99511                    907-980-1151 (evenings)

`http://www.bindlebinaries.net/about/'      syzdek@bindlebinaries.net


Summary of Qualifications
-------------------------

   * Possess expertise in creating portable programs and libraries with
     emphasis on using the development tools gcc, autoconf, libtool,
     and automake.

   * Solid understanding of Unix environments such as Slackware Linux,
     FreeBSD, Solaris, and OS X.

   * Demonstrated knowledge of developing Unix daemons and related
     concepts such as Signal handling, process forking, logging, PID
     file management, and chrooting.

   * Strong knowledge of LDAP design (both Sun One Directory Server and
     OpenLDAP) and of integrating applications with LDAP.

Technical Expertise
-------------------

Languages
     C, Objective-C, C++, Perl, PHP, Bash, JavaScript, CSS, SSI, M4,
     and XML

Documentation Formats
     HTML, Perl Plain Old Documentation (POD), doxygen, Unix Man Pages,
     and Texinfo

APIs
     LDAP, MinGW, AppKit/Cocoa (OS X), UIKit/Cocoa (iPhone), Libtool,
     Pthreads, Berkeley DB, and Syslog

Concepts
     Unix Daemons, Networks, BSD Socket Programming (TCP and UDP),
     Portable Programming, CGI Programming, Cross-Compiling, Library
     Programming, Perl Modules, Source Code Control/Revision Control,
     Change Management, Software Documentation, and Open Source
     Licenses (GPL, LGPL, and FDL)

Protocols
     DNS, FTP, HTTP, HTTPS, IMAP, LDAP, NFS, NTP, SMB/CIFS, SMTP, SNMP,
     OSPP, POP3, and SSH

Standards
     Single Unix Specification (SUSv3), GNU Coding Standards,
     Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS), and External Data
     Representation Standard (XDR/RFC1014)

Development Tools
     GCC, GNU Make, GNU Libtool, GNULib, GNU Libc, Autoconf, Automake,
     CVS, Xcode, and Texinfo

Software
     Slackware Linux, FreeBSD, Solaris, Apple OS X, and Windows (98,
     2000, XP)

Professional Experience
-----------------------

Alaska Communications Systems
     Anchorage, Alaska
     Acting IP Engineer II (2003 - current)
     Primary responsibilities include maintaining SunOne Directory
     Servers, Apache servers, ProFTP servers, and legacy servers from
     acquired ISP.  Secondary responsibilities include writing internal
     applications for the ISP business unit and other departments as
     required.
        - Developed a web portal that allows staff to provision virtual
          domains and allows subscribers to self-manage users within
          their respective domains.

        - Developed a session management system that authenticates and
          tracks subscribers.  The system allows multiple web
          interfaces to share a single session identifier for a
          subscriber, thus eliminating the need for the subscriber to
          present credentials to each interface.

        - Developed provisioning system that allowed multiple billing
          systems from different business units to provision services
          on a shared LDAP entry.  This allowed services maintained
          from different billing systems for an individual subscriber
          to share a single user name and password.

        - Wrote a library and client that implemented the Over-the-air
          Service Provisioning Protocol, a proprietary protocol
          developed by Logica intended to allow clients on TCP/IP
          networks to communicate with mobile phones.  The client is
          used by an IVR to activate new mobile phones and update
          Preferred Roaming Lists (PRL) of existing mobile phones.

        - Wrote miscellaneous web interfaces for managing MMS, WAP, and
          EVDO service provisioning.

        - Wrote a library and utility that creates NAM data blocks for
          either IS-683-A or IS-683-C compatible mobile phones.

        - Implemented and maintained a CVS server to manage software
          packages developed by IP Engineering.
     Systems Administrator I (August 2001 - 2003)
     Primary responsibilities included maintaining DNS servers, iPlanet
     Messaging Servers, iPlanet Directory Servers, Apache servers,
     ProFTP servers, and legacy servers from acquired ISP.  Secondary
     responsibilities included writing simple utilities to assist
     support staff.
        - Using Bind 9, designed a DNS infrastructure which implemented
          split views and split horizons.

        - Developed Unix tools using Perl, Bash, and C to simplify
          server management and to assist technical support personnel.

        - Developed multiple Perl CGI interfaces which allowed staff
          controlled access to LDAP data and radius data.

        - Developed an iPlanet Messenger Express plug-in using CGI
          scripting and JavaScript. The plug-in added the ability for
          subscribers to manage e-mail filters. This involved writing a
          basic Sieve rule parser in JavaScript.

        - Completed a user audit of an acquired company's provisioning
          systems against the company's billing database. Services were
          provisioned using Unix passwd and shadow files and the
          billing information was stored in MS SQL databases.

        - Planned and executed an upgrade of an iPlanet Messaging
          Server that served roughly 65,000 users. The upgrade
          including moving from a Sun 4400 to a Sun V880, moving the
          message store from NFS shares to local arrays, and upgrading
          the software from version 5.1 to version 5.2.  Detailed
          plans, time lines accurate to the minute, and proof of
          repetitive testing was provided to management prior to the
          actual upgrade.

        - Planned and executed the migration of an acquired ISP
          (MosquitoNet) consisting of roughly 6,000 users into ACS's
          ISP infrastructure.  This included coordinated e-mail, web,
          FTP, DNS, and radius migrations.

        - Implemented a FTP infrastructure that uses LDAP for
          authentication and supports virtual domains.  Created custom
          LDAP schema to support infrastructure.

        - Developed a system that uses data from LDAP and local
          templates to dynamically provision and re-provision virtual
          domains.

        - Was primary administrator for DNS servers, iPlanet Messaging
          Servers, LDAP servers, and Unix web servers of the ISP
          business unit.

HB Technical Services
     Fairbanks, Alaska
     Systems Administrator (April 2001)
        - Used OpenLDAP on Linux and OpenBSD to provide global address
          book and roaming Netscape profile solutions for small
          businesses.

        - Used Linux and Samba as replacements for Microsoft Windows
          servers in small business environments. The replacements were
          used for primary domain controllers, file servers, roaming
          profiles, and print servers.

        - Provided OpenBSD firewalls for small businesses.

        - Produced and maintained Linux servers which provided Internet
          services such as web, e-mail, DNS, FTP, DHCP, and Webmail for
          small businesses.

        - Provided on site consulting and support for small networks,
          workstations, and Linux and OpenBSD servers.

Internet Plus LLC dba MosquitoNet
     Fairbanks, Alaska
     Systems Administrator (May 2001 - August 2001)
        - Set up and maintained MySQL databases for virtual hosting
          subscribers.

        - Assisted with the initial migration administrative tasks from
          MosquitoNet to ACS.

        - Initiated the audit of MosquitoNet's provisioning systems.

        - Implemented new web mail system.

        - Managed daily operational tasks, resolved escalations from
          technical support, and provided a 24 hour response to system
          outages.
     Computer Technician (March 2000 - April 2001)
        - Installed and configured 802.11b networking equipment at
          subscriber premises.

        - Provided technical support to wireless and business
          subscribers.  Provided on site response in the event of
          extended subscriber outages.

        - Acted as a sales person to expand MosquitoNet's user base.

        - Provided on site computer repair.

        - Installed simple office networks for small businesses.
     Subscriber Support Technician (January 2000 - March 2000)
        - Provided technical support to email, dial-up, and virtual
          hosting subscribers.

        - Assisted in the computer repair shop as needed.


Additional Experience
---------------------

Roman Numeral Conversion API
     `http://roman.sourceforge.net/'
     The Roman Numeral Conversion API is a small project which consists
     of a library and utilities which convert values for Roman numerals
     and Arabic numerals. The library and utility will compile on POSIX
     systems and on Microsoft Operating systems. The source code was
     written to adhere to the GNU Coding Standards.

magic8ball
     `http://www.bindlebinaries.net/products/magic8ball/'
     magic8ball is a simple iPhone application which simulates the toy
     created in the late 1940s. This application makes use of the
     device's accelerometer to determine if a new message should be
     displayed.  This application is available for iPhones and iPod
     Touches running OS 2.0.

RPNCalc
     `http://www.bindlebinaries.net/products/rpncalc/'
     RPNCalc is implements a calculator using Reverse Polish Notation.
     This application makes use of CoreGraphics to generate the button
     images. The UIView objects are dynamically created without the use
     of Interface Builder so that a future version will be able to
     implement configurable button layouts and color schemes. The
     calcator was designed using MVC so that the keyboard layouts can
     be changed using view transitions while maintaining persistent
     calculator state.

Astute
     `http://www.syzdek.net/downloads/astute/'
     Astute is an imitation of the board game Boggle.  This application
     is being developed using the Interface Builder and makes use of
     multiple windows and keyboard inputs.  This application has not
     yet been released and is still in development.


